Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to start working on the background image choosing ability for our banner
block.
So actually right away, before we add that background image feature, I do want to adjust our banner
block so that it uses a P render callback.
Now before we set that up, I want to explain why I want to use that approach.
And to do that, all we need to do is look in the our blocks folder and open up banner dot.
J.S. Scroll down to the very bottom and let's look at our save component function.
So to answer the question with a question, essentially, why do I want to use the PHP render callback
approach?
Let me ask you this.
What if we need to make a change to this each HTML structure in the future?
And what if we've used this block in ten different templates in 500 blog posts?
So yes, we could add a deprecated property to our JavaScript file and store, you know, the historical
all the different historical versions of our save component.
So that way WordPress wouldn't ask us to click the attempt block recovery button and it could actually
just use the new code.
But even that approach would still require you to manually click in to all 500 blog posts and at least
still click the overall update post button, you know, in the top right corner.
This is because the save function in our JavaScript block, this just returns a string of text and then
that string is stored in the WordPress database.
So there's nothing dynamic about it.
And I don't know about you, but that is not a workflow that I want to build a large and complex website
around.
If I need to make a change to this HTML, I want to be able to change it in one file and I want all
500 posts and pages and templates that use it to now use my newest code immediately, automatically,
dynamically.
And that's exactly what PHP render callbacks allow us to have.
Now, we've already learned about render callbacks in our Plug in development chapter, right when we
built a couple of custom block types.
However, this time around, because our banner block has nested blocks inside it, we need to use our
PHP to access not only the block attributes but also the block content.
If that doesn't make sense right now, that's okay.
Essentially in this video lesson, we're going to set up our new approach and I'll explain what all
of this means.
But right now, to give you a sneak peek, I'll just say that it means we can have our cake and eat
it, too.
Let's get to work.
So in our text editor, I need you to open up our functions.
TCP IP file.
If you scroll down to the very, very bottom, you'll remember we have this class called JSF X BLOCK
right now.
Let's adjust it so that down here, when we're actually creating instances from it, here's our banner
block.
I want to be able to add a second argument here.
So after the quotes banner and say true, and I want that to mean that I want to use a render callback
essentially in the on init function.
When we're registering our block type, we have this property of editor script and we would just add
another property to this array of arguments that is called render underscore callback, and then you
just give it a value of a function.
However, I don't want a hard code that here because many of your blocks on your website that use this
class may not want a PHP render callback.
So essentially I'm just trying to make it an opt in or an optional feature, right where I'm trying
to make our class nice and flexible.
So there is a million different ways you can organize the AP to power this.
But here's what I would do.
First of all, in our class of JS X block, in the construct function, let's add a parameter in addition
to dollar sign name, comma, let's call it.
And we could make up any name.
Let's call it dollar sign, render callback and let's set that to equal null.
That way, even if you don't provide a value, a second argument, we won't run into an error, right?
Because for these blocks where we're not using a pre render callback, we don't want to have to add
a second argument and say false.
We just don't want to have to add anything extra at all.
Cool.
Now in the construct function, let's go ahead and hold on to that value.
So after this line where we're holding on to the name value, we can say dollar sign this dash greater
than render callback equals dollar sign render callback.
Cool.
So now we can access this from any of our class methods.
Now here's what I'm going to do to make this array of arguments dynamic.
Do this with me, select from the word array here and just select to the closing single closing parentheses.
So not both of these parentheses, just the first one.
Cut that into your clipboard and in its place.
Let's point towards a variable that doesn't exist yet, but we can create it in 5 seconds from now.
So just say dollar sign our args, right?
Our arguments cool.
Now right above that register block type line of code.
So right about here, let's just make up that variable.
So dollar sign our args equals and now I want you to just paste in your clipboard.
Cool.
Let's be sure to end this line with a semicolon right here.
Okay.
And now right below this line of code, let's just write an if statement and we're just going to check
does render callback or I should highlight this, does our render callback property, does it equal
true?
If it does equal true, then we can just push another property onto our array of arguments.
So if parentheses curly brackets, the condition is if.
Dollar sign this.
Dash greater than render callback.
So if that evaluates to true then in the curly brackets for if what do we want to do?
Well dollar sign our args.
Square brackets.
We want to set a property in that array called.
And this name is not made up.
It needs to be exactly this name render underscore callback.
Right.
So just like WordPress has this official name of editor script, this is a WordPress property name,
render callback and just set it to equal and now we give it a p function.
We haven't created it yet, but you can imagine we'll have a method in our overall class.
So let's just point towards that method.
So we use the array syntax dollar sign this comma quotes and now we just make up a method name.
How about our render callback?
Now let's just go create a method with this matching name.
So maybe above our on init function we're still in our class.
We can just say function our render callback parentheses curly brackets.
Now in these parentheses and you might remember this from our plug in development chapter, we would
include a parameter of attributes, right?
That way, when WordPress calls this function for us, it's going to pass into it any of the block attributes.
However, and this is where things get interesting.
Let's add a comma and have another attribute of dollar sign content.
Because not only do we need to access the attributes, but if we have a block that has nested content
right other blocks nested inside it, we need to access that content.
Don't worry, we'll see this in action in just a little bit.
For now, within the body of this function, we need to answer the question of, well, what should
this function return?
Well, it just needs to return a string of text.
That's HTML.
And that HTML is what's going to actually be used on the front end of your website.
So in our function, I don't know about you, but I don't like having to manually concatenate a long
string of text with PHP.
This type of syntax is very unintuitive for me.
I find it really awkward.
I'm not good at writing code like that, so what I want to be able to do in this function?
Yes, it needs to return a string, but I want to be able to write just regular PHP where you're free
to drop in and out of PHP and when you're not in PHP, you're just adding plain HTML, right?
You're outputting it.
But I want to be able to write that type of code even though we need to return one big value here.
So this is what I like to do.
It's just personal preference.
But in this function we're going to say, oh, underscore, start semicolon, then let's just have a
placeholder line where we say ABC, one, two, three, then we'll have a final line where we do return
one big string value and we're just going to say return oh be get clean semicolon.
So we're using PHP to create an output buffer.
We're starting that, we're ending it and returning that here.
So essentially anything we do in between those lines.
So where this placeholder line is that will just be treated as a big string of text that gets returned.
Now from here, there's a million different ways you could stay organized.
But on this placeholder line here, I think we should just require in a P file with the matching name
for your block type.
In other words, if you call our class or if you instantiate a new object using our class and you give
it a name of banner, right, your JavaScript file would be banner.
JS.
I would just want to load a p file here called Banner dot p.
So let's do this.
Let's say require get beam file path semicolon in the parentheses, just double quotes slash our blocks.
Right?
That's where we're storing our JavaScript files.
Well, we can also store IP files in there.
So slash and then blanks, AP only we don't actually want to hard code the word blank so this would
be curly brackets dollar sign this dash greater than name cool so let's go ahead and save this and now
because down here when we created this instance of it for Banner, we said true, it's going to use
a PHP render callback function.
So we just need to go create a p file with this name.
Right banner.
So in the our blocks folder, new file name it banner dot p just for a super quick test in this file.
How about we just say this is from P, give that a save and refresh the front end of your website.
And I knew this would happen.
I'm so used to writing JavaScript that I leave out semicolons.
And you.
Absolutely cannot do that.
And B, so it right here, it tells us what line number, line 181 So back in functions dot b me show
you where I led you astray on line 180.
This line of code needs to end with a semicolon.
Give that a save.
Refresh the front end.
Oops.
Looks like we've got another error around.
Line number 199.
Let's scroll down.
As you might have guessed, on line 198.
At the end of that line, I also forgot a semicolon.
Give that a save.
Try it one more time.
Perfect.
So now we don't see our banner block.
But we do see.
In its place.
This is from HP.
Now, before we go any further, let's actually look at the database entry for this full site editing
template.
You know the drill by now.
You know how I locate this in the database.
But essentially here we see our block theme banner.
Now, the reason I'm having us look at this is because none of this HTML that we see here.
So the two opening wrapper, divs, none of this HTML needs to live in the database.
Or at least that's my opinion.
That's my philosophy.
Instead, the HTML can just live in our PHP render callback.
However, this type of content.
So the comments that explain which block type to nest and then any block attributes that absolutely
does need to live in the database.
So we 100% need to save this from within our JavaScript component.
Now for extra credit.
After this chapter, you could go back and adjust our generic heading and generic button blocks to use
this same approach, right, so that they only have block attributes instead of actual each HTML being
saved.
But in this lesson, we're not going to worry about generic heading in generic button.
We're just going to worry about our banner block.
Okay.
But the big picture idea is, if you wanted to for extra credit, you can use this approach that we're
going to set up so that you never really have any HTML when you're working with your own custom block
types.
That's just my philosophy.
I don't want to hard code each HTML.
I would rather it live dynamically on the fly inside a AP file.
Anyways, back to the actual task at hand for our banner block.
Let's adjust the value that we're returning in our save component to not return any HTML and to only
return the actual nested content.
So to do that back in banner dot Jess down at the very bottom in our save component.
Just go ahead and cut all of this HTML or I should say this.
Jess X, go ahead and cut this into your clipboard.
We're going to want it in another minute or two, so make sure it's safe and ready in your clipboard
to use elsewhere.
But now, in this function, the only thing we need to return so I'll get rid of the parentheses is
literally just inner blocks dot content.
And that's a self-closing component.
So whatever string of text this function returns, that's what's going to get saved into the database.
You might remember this approach from back in the Plug in development chapter when we would return NULL
here.
That's very similar to what we're doing now.
It's just that because the banner block can have blocks nested inside of it, we do need to return at
least this content.
Anyways, let's go ahead and save this file.
And before we move on to the aspect, don't forget to have your NPM run start task up and running.
So NPM run start.
Right, because we just made a change to our JavaScript file anyways.
At this point with that code still in your clipboard, I want you to jump into banner TCP IP, get rid
of this.
This is from copy and paste in your clipboard.
Now we do need to adjust this so it's no longer JSE acts.
We wanted to just be regular HTML, so instead of class name there's three instances.
Just change it to class equals next in speed.
This doesn't make sense.
This inner block stock content.
So just replace that line with instead drop into B, drop out of B call echo dollar sign content that
will accomplish exactly the same thing.
Finally, we do need to adjust this style property in PHP.
You can't just give it curly brackets object like this.
So let's give ourselves a clean slate.
Leave the style equals, but start deleting everything after style equals all the way to the closing
double curly bracket.
So like this right style equals and then let's say quotes and just spell out regular HTML in access.
So background dash, image, colon URL, parentheses, a pair of single quotes inside there.
That's where you include the actual, you know, HTTP address.
So inside there, let's drop into B and echo out git theme file.
You try parentheses to call that give it a string value of slash images slash library dash here dot
jpeg.
In our very next video, we're going to make this actually dynamic so the end user can upload a new
photo.
But for now, we're just.
Testing our approach.
So let's go ahead and save this.
And now we absolutely need to go insert a fresh copy of our block into our template.
Right?
Because our old copy of the block, it had that banner wrapper div in the actual value that would be
saved in the database.
So if we refresh right now on the front end, we'd see a doubling up.
Yes.
See how the image starts here.
And then we've got sort of a banner nested inside a banner that's to be expected.
Right, because we've doubled up that HTML.
However, in the template editor, go ahead and refresh.
We're going to see an error message.
Absolutely.
We don't even need to attempt the recovery.
Just click on the block itself and push, delete or backspace on your keyboard and let's just insert
a fresh copy.
So ad block banner, let's add a large headline and a button.
So say generic heading.
Welcome.
We click on the background image.
You can click the plus symbol.
Let's add a small headline.
The sky is blue.
Finally, let's add a generic button.
Learn more.
Make it dark orange.
Let's go ahead and click Save.
And now, if we refresh the front end, perfect.
And let's go look at our database.
So here we see our banner block.
Notice this is perfect.
There's no HTML.
The only thing that lives inside this comment in our template is literally just the other nested blocks
that live inside it.
Now you do see this HTML, but that's not directly a child of the banner block.
That's part of the generic heading block.
And like I said, again, for extra credit at the end of this chapter, you can use this approach that
we're taking for the banner block, and you could apply this same approach to generic heading and generic
button.
That's not our focus right now, though.
We're just working on generic banner anyways.
At this point, I'm very happy with this setup.
And in our very next lesson now we're in a great position to actually add the background image choosing
and uploading functionality.
I think that'll be a fun detail to work on.
So let's keep our momentum rolling and I'll see you then.